

	This FAQ will surf as additional resource for information on  EnDe. It
	will not give the details about EnDe, these are found in EnDe's manual
	see http:EnDe.man.html?EnDe.man.txt .
	Most answers herein will link to that manual.


Introduction

    What is EnDe?
	EnDe is a collection of functions for various codings, encryptions and
	hashings.  It is written in  JavaScript and can be used in most modern
	browsers. EnDe consist of a library of these functions (mainly refered
	to as API in EnDe's documentation) and a HTML-page (refered to as GUI)
	for easy access with a browser.

    What can EnDe be used for?
	EnDe  - the API and/or the GUI - can be used to en-/decode, encrypt or
	hash various types of data. It's main target area will be HTTP and all
	related.  The target audience can be web developers, (web) penetration
	testers, or people doing forensic on malicious code (mainly in context
	of HTTP).
	There may be some other areas which the author is not yet aware of :)


Installation

	Please see  http:EnDe.man.html#INSTALLATION .
	In short: install EnDe on your system and point your browser to EnDe's
	"index.html" in the installation directory.


HowTo

    How do I build my own menus in the GUI?
	All menus in the GUI are defined in simple text files. All these files
	can be changed to your needs by simply editing them.  It's recommended
	that the modified files are located in the  "./usr"  sub-directory.
	Following files conatin the definitions for menus in the GUI:
	    EnDeMenu.txt   - all the menus (actions) in the tools
	    EnDeOpts.txt   - all the option menus
	    EnDeFile.txt   - the "Load File Menu:" in the  GUI OPTIONS

	There is "usr/EnDeMenu-Sample.txt" which contains simple flat menu for
	some of the action menus. Simply rename it to  "usr/EnDeMenu.txt"  and
	reload your browser.


Troubleshooting

    Why does "Base64" decoding sometimes return the coded string itself?
	This most likely happens when the  decoded string  ends with a newline
	or carriage return or both.
	The default  'mode' for decoding is set to 'lazy' which allows missing
	padding in the encoded string, but no invalid charcters. If the 'mode'
	is set to 'verbose', see the corresponding checkbox in  API OPTIONS,  
	then such invalid characters are ignored.


Troubleshooting (GUI only)

    Why does EnDe not work in Internet Explorer?
	It seems that IE 5.x, 6.x, 7.x and 8.x do not comply to  ECMA 262  and
	W3C  standards.

    Why do some select menus in the index.html not work?
	This is a browser issue.
	The W3C definitions of HTML describe the  'onClick' and the  'onChange'
	event. Both must be supported by the browser.  Unfortunatelly there are
	some browsers  which do only support  one of them.  Therefore it's very
	difficult to implement a proper solution for all browsers. Please refer
	to the [Browser Quirks] button for changing this behaviour.
	Most (but not all) Webkit-based browsers suffer from this problem.

    Why do some browsers not build menus when started with file:///index.html ?
	This is a browser issue.
	Menu definitions are read from files using the XMLHttpRequest function
	which is disabled for local files for security reasons.
	Webkit-based browsers inhibit XMLHttpRequest to read from  'file://' .
	However, some browsers may support a special command line option (i.e.
	"--allow-file-access-from-files") to disable this security feature.

Miscellaneous

    Why does EnDe not provide a `request website' functionality?
	Well, the author also often would like such a feature: use a given URL
	or even a complete HTTP request (message header and body) which can be
	processed with EnDe's functions and then send to the remote site. Such
	a functionality is/was available in CAL9000. Even EnDe's first release
	was based on the ideas of CAL9000, the  request/response functionality
	have not been ported 'cause all modern browsers (starting around 2005)
	no longer allow  cross-site XMLHttpRequest  calls.  There is no simple
	way to implement such cross-site XHR without using a proxy application
	which would require to install  EnDe  as a web application.  But  EnDe
	should run everywhere, even from a local file system.

    Why is the checksum menu not visible by default?
	These are not `real' en- or decodings. For details please see
		http:EnDe.man.html#USER_file_EnDeCheck_js_

    What does EnDe mean?
	EnDe  as written in camel case, has no practical meaning, at least not
	in German. I'm not aware of a practical mening in other languages.
	Though,  EnDe  may be interpreted as an acronym for Encoding/Decoding.
	The German word itself means "the end" or "finish" in English.
	"the end" can be used in a positive or negative sense, depends on your
	current point of view ;-)
	"Ende" is also a family name (not the author). And "Michael Ende" is a
	famous author known for his fantastic stories.
	See  http:EnDe.man.html#EPILOG  for more thoughts about this.

    How do you pronounce EnDe?
	Exactly like the German word "Ende", which means "the end" in English.

    Where can I buy EnDe?
	You cannot. EnDe is Open Source and so free for everyone.


Administration

    Why can I not find EnDe at SourceForge?
	Mainly because  the author  has his own opinion about how a repository 
	should work for the developer and the comunity.

	This is not meant offencive anyhow  to SourceForge or any other public
	repository, they all do a wonderful job providing such services.

    Why is there no public editable source of EnDe?
	Well,  the sources are public and can be modified as needed.  Just the
	repository can be used by subscribed persons only.

	This means that everyone can make any changes in her/his private copy.
	Changes which should be integrated into the main trunk  should be send
	to the authors.  They will manually review them and integrate into the
	main trunk.  The author of any change will be honored in the  CREDITS  
	section (and the sources, if appropriate) if (s)he likes.

    Why does the tarball not contain a root directory?
	Various practical reasons:
	* building the tarball is simpler and straight forward
	* users (you!) should not be forced to use a predefined directory name
	* the installation directory  --is the same as the runtime directory--
	  contains the "./usr" directory which may contain user-definable data
	  and should not be overwritten by updates.
	

    Why is there no automatic update feature?
	Currently there is no need to build  a sophisticated update service as
	the installation is such simple as to download and unpack the tarball.

	Future versions my support at least an update check. See the [showSID]
	button in the Test section for a quick overview.


Development

    How can I debug the GUI?
	Use the  [Trace] button in the  GUI OPTIONS  or the '?trace' parameter
	in the URL. This will show the "trace" tool in the GUI where the debug
	output will be printed.  The  "trace level" checkboxes  can be used to
	specify which parts of the GUI should print more details.
	To get a quick overview, the  [Status Bar] button  in the  GUI OPTIONS  
	may be sufficient.

    How can I debug the API?
	Currently there is no debugging implemented in the library functions.
	However, some functions  are a bit more verbose if called with  'mode'
	set to 'verbose', see the corresponding checkbox in the  API OPTIONS.  

    Why does the project not use a tree structure?
	The main reason is that a (mainly)  flat directory  makes it very easy
	to cross reference from the code to the  online documentation (see the
	[?] buttons and the links in the documentation itself).
	However, there is the  `tree' target in the "Makefile" which allows to
	convert to a tree structure. EnDe's GUI "index.html" should work flaw-
	less with the tree structure, but some references in or to the  online
	documentation may be broken. Some more details is available with
+-
|	   make tree.doc
+-
	The `tree' feature is experimental.

    Is there a description of the architecture or code?
	There is a brief description of EnDe's architecture in http:EnDe.odg 
	and something about the coding style can be found in http:EnDe.man.html?EnDe.code.txt
	Anything else should be described in the files itself.


Version of FAQ

	@(#) EnDe.FAQ.txt 3.1 12/06/05 00:05:13

